>> Scott Moss: We talked about
revalidating the cache on the initial
server queries or the server
actions that we did on the react
server components for our pages and slots.
Now I just wanna kind of cover all
the different ways you can revalidate, and
some of the other ways in which your
data might automatically be revalidated.
So just wanna kind of cover some of that.
So one of the first ones
is time-based revalidation.
Time-based revalidation occurs
automatically after a specific time
interval.
So there's a way you can do that, I don't
really use fetch a lot on the server side,
but if you look at the next ASDOCS,
they use it a lot.
You can tell they've obviously patched
fetch to be able to do things like this,
but you can give it a time
if you're using the fetch,
in which you want this to revalidate.
Otherwise, it'll always when you
call it again within that time,
it'll just be cached.
So that's something you can do,
I've just never had good
experience with time based caching for
a front-end app.
I feel like that's better for
something network layer,
something that you can
actually use a TTL on and
do something on a network level,
maybe like Redis, but I don't know.
I just never figure out, well,
what time do I put here?
How often should this be, because it's
like the unpredictable nature of a user,
who knows how long they're
gonna be somewhere?
So I guess it's like a combination
of give it a validate time,
but then also at the same time,
you revalidate it yourself.
So maybe it's a combination, but by
itself, I feel like it's not too useful,
what number do you know what to put here?
You can also do this, so that's like if
you're using fetch on the server side, but
if you're just like in our case,
the pages, well,
not our case cuz we're using cookies.
But in places where the cookies were
not being used, you could say, cool,
you can export a variable called
revalidate in a page or a layout, you can
give it a time in seconds, and that's
how long that page will be re-validated.
If you wanted to do that, but again,
this doesn't really matter to us because
all of our pages and slots use cookies.
So it's never cached
until we cached it with
the memoize function, so
that's how you do that.
Again, I will probably never do that,
I don't know when I would do that, or
why, or what would that look like.
If someone's on your app,
they're just sitting on the screen and
then it re-validated and like 30 things is
popped up like a jumpscare, I don't know,
that'd be kind of weird.
It's like I want more control
when that happens, but
maybe I'm thinking about Iran.
>> Scott Moss: A couple other things here,
so on demand revalidation,
this is what we did.
So, you could do a revalidate path, which
is something we didn't have to do, again,
because really none of our pages were
cached because they had cookies.
If they didn't use something on the
header, a revalidate path is pretty much
you can think of it as every page
gets its own tag, its tag is its URL.
So you can say revalidate this path,
so this whole page revalidate it and
it'll get cleaned out.
We use tag base, which is like exactly
what it sounds like, we give it a tag,
we can revalidate it when we
call revalidate with that tag.
So you can also do that with fetch,
again, I rarely use fetch inside
of server components, maybe I just
haven't hit that use case yet.
One of the things I have done though,
is use third party APIs to have STKs,
for instance stripe or
something like that on the service side.
And obviously those things are making http
calls, but you don't have access to, or
even know if they're using fetch.
So the caching strategy to that is,
I don't know,
I don't really know how that works.
Bt at the same time,
do I want that to be cached?
So there's still a lot to think about on
the server side in my opinion, and I don't
think a lot of people actually do fetch on
the server side like this, though they do.
I'm writing code wrong, I don't really do
a lot of server side fetch calls, I guess.
If there's an API that I need to hit
on the server side is probably through
some SDK that I installed most likely.
It's like very rare where I'll do
that if that's the case busted or
something like that.
But I guess if you like microservices and
we're talking across your microservices,
I can see that.
So maybe it's useful there,
I don't have microservices.
Yep, V Valley tag,
that's what we did here, so
we know about that one,
this one's really nice.
So basically, if the revalidation fails,
when you call revalidation tag or
the time expires or revalidation path and
the revalidation fails, it'll just
serve the last one that was good.
So it won't be in a broken state,
that's actually quite useful.
So, opting out of some
of the data cachings or
here's some of the things
you can do on the fetch.
You can say no store like this, or
you can say re-validate to zero,
that works as well.
Route handler requests, we don't have
any route handlers in this course.
There really isn't much more advanced
stuff to them other than what I covered in
the intro, so
I didn't feel the need to cover it.
But if you use headers or
cookies, that route handler won't be
cached because those things are dynamic,
anything attached to the request object,
it won't be cached.
If you're not using those things, and you
just wanna force that route handler to be
not cached, you can say dynamic
equals force and you can export that.
I guess like do you recommend
using no cache at all or
would you recommend to
try to always cache?
The way that I think about it is I'm
shooting to always get cache, but
I wanna be in control of the cache.
I don't like the automatic caching, and
I don't like if you use this function
anywhere, cuz the problem
is it's not obvious, right?
Sometimes you'll be in a react server
component that uses a function,
that uses a function, that uses
a function, that uses a function, and
that function uses a cookie.
So then it's like,
how do you know if this is caching or not?
That's where it starts to get complicated.
So for me, I would just rather
turn off the automatic caching,
and then opt into caching manually by
doing the thing that I showed you guys
how to do, and then just do, on demand
revalidation by calling revalidate tag.
That way at least I know what I cache and
when I revalidate it,
versus it depends on the time or
the dev environment or production or
what method you use, to me that's just so
complicated to keep track of.
So you definitely want cache, but
you want it to be predictable.